# Exploring and Recommending Highly Rated Board Games
by Rachael Glazner

## Description of Project
For decades, board games have been a popular mode of entertainment. This project aims to answer the following questions: Which features are most strongly associated with high board game ratings? Can a recommendation system be created based on game themes and mechanics? Ordinary Least Squares (OLS) analysis revealed a statistically significant relationship between game complexity and average rating, and was adjusted for complexity bias for regression analysis of other attributes. 
OLS Regression was used to determine which themes and mechanics were most strongly associated with board game ratings. Ridge regression was used to determine which publishers and artists were most strongly associated with board game rating. Additionally, a recommendation system was developed based on theme and mechanics using k-means clustering. All analyses were conducted using Python.

## Summary of Questions and Answers                                                                                                                                 
**1. What features are most strongly associated with board game ratings?** <br>
Results indicate that the theme feature had the highest R-Squared value (0.446), thus explaining more variability in board game ratings compared to the other attributes. The theme with the highest coefficient was Bacteria, thus having the most positive association with board game ratings in the theme-based model. Publisher and Mechanics had the next highest R-Squared values at 0.3999 and 0.352, respectively. The Publisher most positively associated with board game ratings was Games Research/Design, and the mechanic with the most positive association with board game ratings was Order Counters. The feature of Artists only had an R-Squared value of 0.2255 and thus only explained a small portion of variability in game ratings. Year published and player count also only explained a small amount  of variability in the game ratings, with an R-Squared value of 0.01. 
                                                                                                             
**2. Can a recommendation system for board games be developed based on the theme and mechanics of a target game? In other words: If someone likes a particular board game, what other similar games might they like?**                                         
The recommendation system was developed first by using k-means clustering to establish 10 clusters based on theme and mechanics. A Python function was developed such that a user could input the game name as an argument into the function, and the output was a list of the five most similar games. The function calculated the cosine similarity of games that shared the same k-means cluster as the target game, and sorted the top 5 values in descending order of similarity. This was successful upon testing with games such as Wingspan and Ticket to Ride. Players who enjoy Wingpsan might also enjoy Everdell, and players who enjoy the original Ticket to Ride might also like on of the Ticket to Ride Expansion games.  Applications for this study could include improved board game creations based on knowledge of popular themes, mechanics, publishers, and artists, as well as enhanced game searching abilities for board game enthusiasts.

## Links                                                                                                                                                            
[Link to final project paper here](Data%20Mining%20Project/Report/Final_Report.pdf) <br>
                                                                                                                                                                    
**Link to final project presentation here:** https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hSYUIIK4deTivoGZEnpvCYCjfMOfe70M/view?usp=sharing
